Django: Detecting Trojans in Object Detection Models
via Gaussian Focus Calibration

Guangyu Shen∗
Purdue University
West Lafayette, IN, 47907
shen447@purdue.edu

Siyuan Cheng∗
Purdue University
West Lafayette, IN 47907
cheng535@purdue.edu

Guanhong Tao
Purdue University
West Lafayette, IN, 47907
taog@purdue.edu

Kaiyuan Zhang
Purdue University
West Lafayette, IN, 47907
zhan4057@purdue.edu

Yingqi Liu
Microsoft
Redmond, Washington 98052
yingqiliu@microsoft.com

Shengwei An
Purdue University
West Lafayette, IN, 47907
an93@purdue.edu

Shiqing Ma
University of Massachusetts at Amherst
Amherst, MA, 01003
shiqingma@umass.edu

Xiangyu Zhang
Purdue University
West Lafayette, IN, 47907
xyzhang@cs.purdue.edu

Abstract

Object detection models are vulnerable to backdoor or trojan attacks, where an
attacker can inject malicious triggers into the model, leading to altered behavior
during inference. As a defense mechanism, trigger inversion leverages optimization
to reverse-engineer triggers and identify compromised models. While existing
trigger inversion methods assume that each instance from the support set is equally
affected by the injected trigger, we observe that the poison effect can vary signifi-
cantly across bounding boxes in object detection models due to its dense prediction
nature, leading to an undesired optimization objective misalignment issue for exist-
ing trigger reverse-engineering methods. To address this challenge, we propose
the first object detection backdoor detection framework Django (Detecting Trojans
in Object Detection Models via Gaussian Focus Calibration). It leverages a dy-
namic Gaussian weighting scheme that prioritizes more vulnerable victim boxes
and assigns appropriate coefficients to calibrate the optimization objective during
trigger inversion. In addition, we combine Django with a novel label proposal
pre-processing technique to enhance its efficiency. We evaluate Django on 3 object
detection image datasets, 3 model architectures, and 2 types of attacks, with a
total of 168 models. Our experimental results show that Django outperforms 6
state-of-the-art baselines, with up to 38% accuracy improvement and 10x reduced
overhead. The code is available at https://github.com/PurduePAML/DJGO.

1

Introduction

Object detection is an extensively studied computer vision application that aims to identify multiple
objects in a given image. It has been widely integrated into various real-world systems, including
public surveillance [51], autonomous driving [14, 25], optical character recognition (OCR)[41], etc.

*Equal Contribution

37th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2023).

(a) Evasion trigger

(b) Misclassification trigger

Figure 1: Triggers with different effects. The blue patch in Figure 1(a) is an evasion trigger, causing
the bounding box to disappear. Figure 1(b) represents a misclassification trigger (yellow), leading to
the misclassification of “pizza” as “giraffe”.

State-of-the-art object detection systems, e.g., SSD [32] and YOLO [44], are primarily built on Deep
Learning (DL) models [13], owing to their remarkable feature representation capabilities.

Despite the impressive performance of existing object detection approaches, they are vulnerable to
backdoor attacks. Backdoor attack is a form of training-time attack, in which a malicious adversary
strategically embeds an imperceptible trigger (e.g., a small image patch) onto a small set of training
data. DL models trained on this poisoned dataset will predict the attacker-chosen target label whenever
an input is stamped with the trigger. There are two major backdoor attacks in object detection, namely,
misclassification attack [3] and evasion attack. As shown in Figure 1, misclassification attack causes
the object detection model to misclassify an object as a target object, whereas evasion attack makes
the model fail to recognize certain objects (i.e., classify traffic signs as the background). Such attacks
can significantly hinder the deployment of object detection systems in real world as they may cause
severe security issues or even life-threatening incidents.

To counter the backdoor threat, researchers have proposed a multitude of defense techniques aimed
at safeguarding the model against backdoor attacks throughout its entire life cycle [59, 33, 69, 16,
26, 22, 18, 10, 54, 50, 36, 72, 27, 65, 31, 35]. Among them, trigger inversion [59, 55, 18] is one
of the most popular backdoor scanning methods and has demonstrated its effectiveness in various
tasks [59, 35]. Given a small set of clean samples and the subject model, trigger inversion techniques
aims to determine if the model is backdoored or not by reverse-engineering the underlying triggers.
The task of trigger inversion can be formulated as an optimization problem with specific constraints,
such as trigger size [59, 18] or particular stylistic attributes [9, 42].

In order to detect backdoors in object detection, a direct solution is to adapt trigger inversion from the
classification task to object detection. We however find that a simple adaptation of trigger inversion
fails short. This attributes to the significantly denser output of object detection models due to the
nature of the task. In specific, an object detection model, such as SSD [32], typically produces
thousands of bounding boxes with corresponding class probabilities to capture objects of varying
scales within a single image. Attackers can exploit this extensive output space to conceal injected
triggers and mislead the optimization process during trigger inversion, causing the loss misalignment
issue. That is, throughout the entire trigger inversion process, the loss values consistently remain
either significantly high or extremely low, regardless of the Attack Success Rate (ASR) that denotes
the ratio of misclassified samples when the trigger is applied. This misalignment property hinders the
identification of high-quality triggers, leading to low backdoor detection performance.

Our study reveals that the underlying cause of the loss misalignment issue stems from the unequal
impact of poisoning on individual bounding boxes within the backdoored model. More specifically,
the backdoor trigger affects only a small fraction of bounding boxes, while leaving the majority
of them largely unaffected. Consequently, the aggregated gradient information is obfuscated by
remaining benign bounding boxes during inversion, thereby impeding the optimizer from accurately
estimating the gradient direction. Based on this observation, we propose the first trigger inversion-
based backdoor detection framework for object detection: DJANGO (Detecting Trojans in Object
Detection Models via Gaussian Focus Calibration). The overview is shown in Figure 2. It features a
novel Gaussian Focus Loss to calibrate the misaligned loss during inversion by dynamically assigning
weights to individual boxes based on their vulnerability. Equipped with a label proposal pre-processor,
DJANGO is able to quickly identify malicious victim-target labels and effectively invert the injected
trigger lies in the backdoored model. Extensive evaluation of 3 object detection datasets, utilizing 3

2

R13-#24Class: Track Field Class: HelipadR13-#119Class: PizzaClass: GiraffeClass: 12R13-#24Class: Track Field Class: HelipadR13-#119Class: PizzaClass: GiraffeClass: 12different model architectures with a total of 168 models, demonstrates the superiority of DJANGO
over six existing state-of-the-art backdoor scanning techniques. Specifically, we achieve up to 0.38
ROC improvement and a substantial reduction in scanning time.

2 Background & Threat Model

Deep Learning based Object Detection Tech-
niques. Extensive research efforts have been
devoted to deep learning (DL) object detec-
tion, encompassing various aspects such as
neural network architecture design [32, 45, 2],
training optimization [29, 61, 74], and robust-
ness [71, 66, 6]. These endeavors contribute to a
broad body of work aimed at advancing the field
of DL object detection. Specifically, given an
image x ∈ X that contains p objects, an object
detection neural network gθ (parameterized by
θ) outputs K (K ≫ p) 5-tuples: ˆy = gθ(x) =
{ˆbx
k, ˆby
k=1, shorten
(cid:124)
as ˆbk(x) and ˆpk(x), which denote the center co-
ordinates, height, width, and class probability
of the k-th predicted bounding box. Note that K is usually much larger than p (K = 8732 in
SSD [32], p ≈ 7.7 in COCO dataset [30]). Box matching algorithms [32, 46] and Non-Maximum
Suppression(NMS) [20] were introduced to address the challenge posed by the substantial box number
discrepancy between the prediction and ground-truth in both training and inference stages.

Figure 2: Overview of DJANGO

k=1 = {ˆbk, ˆpk}K

k, ˆbw
k
(cid:125)

k, ˆbh
(cid:123)(cid:122)

, ˆpk}K

Backdoor Attack & Defense. Backdoor attacks can be carried out through data poisoning with
modified or clean labels [17, 34, 7, 58] and model parameter hijacking [47]. Initially, small image
patches were used as backdoor triggers [17, 8, 48], and later on more complex triggers have been
successfully injected in DL models [28, 64, 33, 37]. These attacks are not limited to image classifi-
cation models; they also affect Large Language Models [70], code models [73, 52], Reinforcement
Learning agents [60], pre-trained image encoders [24, 56], and object detectors [3, 39]. Researchers
have proposed various approaches from defense perspectives. During the training stage, methods
such as poisoned sample identification and filtering have been proposed [40, 53, 4, 57, 19, 43]. In
the post-training stage, backdoor scanning techniques aim to recover injected triggers from trained
models [59, 49, 54, 62, 10, 63, 35, 50, 15]. Backdoor removal techniques are employed to elimi-
nate triggers with minimal resource consumption and performance impact. Real-time rejection of
trigger-carrying samples during inference can be achieved using methods like [12, 16]. Furthermore,
theoretical analyses have been conducted to understand backdoor attacks [67, 68, 72, 23]. In this
work, we prioritize the practical application of trigger inversion-based backdoor detection, with a
specific focus on object detection models.

3 Methodology

Threat Model. Our work considers the standard setting used in existing backdoor scanning liter-
ature [59, 33, 18, 10], where the defender has a small set of clean samples from each class in the
validation set (10 in our paper), but no poison samples and white-box access to the model under
scanning. The defense goal is to classify the benignity of the subject model. Our focus in this study
is on label specific polygon triggers with two types of effects: misclassification and evasion, which
cause the model to predict an object as a target object and the background, respectively.

3.1 Misalignment of CE Loss and ASR in Object Detection Model Trigger Inversion

Backdoor Detection via Trigger Inversion. Trigger inversion aims to decide whether the model
is backdoored or not by reverse-engineering the injected trigger through optimization. Consider an
image classification model fθ parameterized by θ with C classes and a small support set Scv from

3

ModelDecisionBenignTrojanedOptimizationClean SamplesVictim ImageShipTarget LabelInverted TriggerGen. bboxes+StampPreprocessingGF. CalibrationTrigger InversionPreprocessing(a) Classification model

(b) Object detection model with
evasion trigger

(c) Object detection model with
misclassification trigger

Figure 3: ASR vs. CE loss during trigger inversion

each class cv. Trigger inversion [49, 59] aims to solve the following optimization objective.

min
m,p

Ex∈Scv

[L(fθ(ϕ(x)), ct)] + β||m||1, where ϕ(x) = (1 − m) ⊙ x + m ⊙ p.

(1)

Variables m and p are the trigger mask and pattern respectively, to be optimized. The loss function
L(·) typically resues the task loss function as a measurement of the degree of the misbehaved model.
In classification and object detection, it will be the cross entropy (CE) loss. β is the coefficient on
the regularization term, and ||m||1 represents the ℓ1 norm of the mask. Since the defender lacks the
knowledge of the exact poisoned victim and target labels, the backdoor scanning requires optimizing
Eq. 1 for every label pair (cv, cj). If any of these pairs yields a trigger with an exceptionally small
size, it is indicative that the model is trojaned.

Intuitively, it shall be effortless to adapt existing trigger inversion methods from image classification
to object detection. Considering the disparity of these two tasks, object detection models generate
much denser output for each input, i.e., thousands of bounding boxes versus one label in classification.
We can make adjustments to Eq. 1 to optimize a trigger that can impact samples at the box level
rather than the entire image. Given a sample containing a victim object, one naive modification is
to optimize a trigger that can influence all bounding boxes that are close to the victim object. The
objective function can be reformulated as follows:

min
m,p

Ex∈Scv

Eˆo∈Tx[L(ˆo, ct)] + β||m||1,

where Tx = {ˆpk(ϕ(x)) | J [ˆbk(ϕ(x)), b∗] ≥ α} and ϕ(x) = (1 − m) ⊙ x + m ⊙ p.

(2)

We denote the predicted probability and coordinates of the k-th bounding box of sample ϕ(x) as
ˆpk(ϕ(x)) and ˆbk(ϕ(x)), respectively. The function J (·) refers to the Jaccard Overlap, also known
as Intersection over Union. b∗ denotes the ground-truth box coordinates. Intuitively, Tx indicates
the class confidence of a set of predicted boxes surrounding the victim object. Additionally, α is a
pre-defined threshold used to quantify the degree of overlap between predictions and the ground-truth
box and set to 0.5 by default. In this naive extension, the objective is to consider every predicted box
surrounding the victim object as the target of the attack and aim to reverse-engineer a trigger that
compromises all of them. We explain this limitation in the following.

Mis-aligned Loss and ASR. Attack Success Rate (ASR) denotes the percentage of victim samples
misclassified as the target label when the inverted trigger is applied (e.g., set at 90%). For misclassifi-
cation trigger, a successful attack is defined as the presence of at least one box predicts the target
class in the final detection. Evasion Attack is a particular case of misclassification attack where the
target label is the background class ∅. Cross-entropy (CE) loss measures the numerical difference
between model output (confidence) and the desired prediction. In general, ASR and the CE loss are
negatively correlated throughout the optimization process because minimizing the CE loss increases
the probability of the target label. If the target label probability surpasses those of other labels, the
input is misclassified as the target label. Figure 3(a) illustrates the characteristics of the CE loss and
the ASR during trigger inversion for an image classification task.

Such a correlation however may not hold for object detection using a naive trigger inversion Eq. 2.
Specifically, Figure 3(b) shows the inversion process on a Faster-RCNN [45] object detection model
poisoned by an evasion trigger (TrojAI Round13#91, victim class 47). Note that an evasion trigger

4

01020304050Steps0.00.10.20.30.40.5CE LossCE Loss0.50.60.70.80.91.0ASRASR vs. CE LossASR01020304050Steps0.00.20.40.60.81.0CE LossCE Loss0.00.20.40.60.81.0ASRASR vs. CE LossASR01020304050Steps048121620CE LossCE Loss0.00.20.40.60.81.0ASRASR vs. CE LossASR(a) R13#114:90→57: Miscls trigger

(b) R13#33:11→ ∅: Evasion trigger

Figure 4: Target confidence discrepancy w/o the ground-truth trigger

will cause all bounding boxes surrounding the victim object to disappear. Observe that even when
the CE loss is small (≤ 0.1), the ASR remains low (0%). For a model poisoned by misclassification
attack (Round13#12 victim class 3), as illustrated in Figure 3(c), the CE loss remains incredibly
high (≥ 10) and decreases only slightly during trigger inversion, while the ASR remains low or even
decreases. Therefore, the naive trigger inversion fails to find a trigger with high ASR and cannot
identify the poisoned model. The observations are similar when extending several state-of-the-art
trigger inversion techniques [33, 59, 55, 18] to object detection. For instance, NC [59] only achieves
58% detection accuracy on the TrojAI dataset [1].

Causes of Misalignment. We study the misalignment problem by using differential analysis to
compare the intermediate outputs of the object detection model with and without the ground-truth
trigger, specifically the target label confidence of predicted bounding boxes. Given a sample with a
victim object, we collect all predicted boxes with IoU ≥ α (α = 0.5 means a box is close to the object)
around the victim object and track their target label probability change before and after applying
the ground-truth trigger. The key observation is that not every box is equally poisoned. Figure 4(a)
shows the per-box confidence discrepancy for a poisoned model with a misclassification trigger.
Although there are a total number of 84 boxes surrounding the victim object, only approximately 12%
of them (10 boxes, shown in high red bars) are infected by the ground-truth backdoor trigger. The
rest of the boxes only have an average of ≤ 10−10 probability increase on the target label. For the
evasion trigger in Figure 4(b) , there is a slight difference, where 85% of the boxes already have high
confidence (on the background class ∅) even without triggers. The backdoor trigger only elevates the
target probability for the remaining 15% of the boxes.

This intuitively explains the misalignment issue of naive trigger reverse-engineering methods. During
optimization, the cross-entropy loss of each box is equally aggregated, and the averaged gradient
is used to mutate the trigger via back-propagation. However, in the poisoned model, there are only
a small fraction of bounding boxes affected by the backdoor trigger. The gradient information
from unaffected boxes dominates the optimization direction, causing the inversion to fail. This
observation highlights the significance of considering individual bounding boxes separately when
devising inversion methods for object detection, which shall focus on boxes that have a higher
likelihood of being compromised but have not been considered yet.

3.2 Our Solution: Trigger Inversion via Gaussian Focus Loss

As discussed in the last section, the goal of our trigger inversion is to discriminate different bounding
boxes during optimization. Particularly, we aim to find easy-to-flip boxes that are vulnerable and
targeted by injected backdoors. However, it is non-trivial to adaptively select boxes during trigger
inversion as the box output is constantly changing.

Focal Loss [29] is a widely used metric in object detection for assisting better training. It separates
objects into hard-to-classify and easy-to-classify objects based on their training errors, and assigns
different weights on their training losses. For the notation simplicity, we use a binary object detection
model. Note that it is straightforward to extend it to multi-class cases. Recall ˆpk denotes the output
probability of the k-th victim box. The CE loss in Eq. 2 for the k-th victim box can be simplified as
L(ˆpk, ct) = − log(ˆpk) · ct = − log(ˆpk). Focal Loss is a refined weighted CE loss aiming to solve the
imbalanced learning difficulty issue in object detection models. In detail, it assigns larger weights to
boxes that perform poorly (hard examples), i.e., small ˆpk, to enlarge its contribution to the aggregated

5

0.10.30.50.70.9Target Confidencew Triggerw/o Trigger68517091821082648275833086168723Box Index10301015Box Confidence Discepancy0.10.30.50.70.9Target Confidencew Triggerw/o Trigger68517091821082678277833186178710Box Index10301015Box Confidence DiscepancyFigure 5: Coefficient dynamics during reverse-engineering a misclassification trigger

loss. It assigns smaller weights to boxes that have already learned well (easy examples), i.e., large ˆpk:
Lf l(ˆpk, ct) = −λ(1 − ˆpk)γ log(ˆpk),

(3)

where λ ≥ 0, γ ≥ 1 (λ = 0.25, γ = 2 suggested in [29]). The coefficient of the k-th box will
exponentially grow as its probability ˆpk gets close to 0 and vice versa.

Eq. 3 provides insights to address the misalignment problem. Inspired by this, we propose Gaussian
Focus Loss to calibrate the misaligned loss. As illustrated in Figure 4(a), the backdoor trigger tend to
infect only a small portion of victim boxes and leaves remaining largely unchanged. In other words, a
trigger will mainly focus on compromising more vulnerable boxes that are easy to flip (easy example).
Therefore, our goal is essentially opposite to the Focal Loss as it aims to pay more attention to the
hard samples. To avoid the gradient vanishing issue shown in Figure 4(b), a box shall also not be
focused as long as it reaches the attack criterion, i.e., target label confidence ˆpk ≥ 0.1. To summarize,
the desired loss shall be able to dynamically capture a set of vulnerable boxes that have not been
flipped yet, and assign a large coefficient to encourage the transition. The natural bell shape of the
Gaussian Distribution perfectly satisfies our constraints*. We formulate our proposed novel Gaussian
Focus Loss as follows:

Lgf (ˆpk, ct) = −J (ˆbk, b∗)ϕ(ˆpγ

k; ˆσk, ˆµk) log(ˆpk)

where J (ˆbk, b∗) = IoU(ˆbk, b∗), ϕ(x; σ, µ) =

1
√
2π

σ

e− 1

2 ( x−µ

σ )2

(4)

It involves two key attributes to measure the vulnerability of a victim box during optimization: the
overlapping with the ground-truth object and the confidence towards the target label. Namely, boxes
with larger overlapping and higher target label confidence tend to be more vulnerable. The ˆµk and ˆσk
are the mean and standard deviation of the Gaussian Distribution. Note that we allow two parameters
to be co-optimized with the inverted trigger such that we can adjust the range of focused boxes
dynamically through the entire trigger inversion procedure. We initialize ˆµk = 0.1 and ˆσk = 2 in this
paper. Figure 5 provides a visual explanation of the coefficient dynamics during various optimization
steps. Initially, when the victim boxes exhibit low confidence towards the target label, the Gaussian
Focus Loss assigns slightly larger weights to a considerable number of bounding boxes surrounding
the initial value (0.1). As the optimization progresses, the Gaussian Focus Loss prioritizes more
vulnerable boxes that have higher target label probabilities by decreasing the value of σ and increasing
the value of µ. In the later stages, the weight coefficients of boxes that have already been flipped are
reduced to mitigate the issue of gradient vanishing.

3.3 Compromised Label Proposal via Backdoor Leakage

Without knowing the exact victim and target labels, scanning backdoors is time-consuming. To
reduce the time cost, pre-processing is proposed [49, 54] to quickly select a small set of promising
compromised label pairs based on the widely existing backdoor leakage phenomena: the poisoned

*Any distributions characterized by centralized peaks are suitable for our intended purpose. We explore

alternatives in Appendix D.

6

0.050.060.010.250.500.750.250.500.750.250.500.7520406080100Box Density1.05.010.015.020.0Box CoefficientTarget ConfidenceInitial StageModerate StageLate StageBox CoefficientRobust BoxesFlipped BoxesTable 1: Comparison to trigger inversion based methods

D

M

Metric

ABS

NC

NC*

Pixel

Pixel*

Tabor

Tabor*

DJANGO

D
S
S

N
N
C
R
-
F

R
T
E
D

D
S
S

N
N
C
R
-
F

D
S
S

s
i
s
e
h
t
n
y
S
n
g
i
S
c
fi
f
a
r
T

A
T
O
D

O
C
O
C

Precision
Recall
ROC-AUC
Overhead(s)

Precision
Recall
ROC-AUC
Overhead(s)

Precision
Recall
ROC-AUC
Overhead(s)

Precision
Recall
ROC-AUC
Overhead(s)

Precision
Recall
ROC-AUC
Overhead(s)

Precision
Recall
ROC-AUC
Overhead(s)

0.7143
0.6250
0.7109
409.23

0.6667
0.3750
0.5352
753.89

-
-
-
-

0.6000
0.7500
0.5000
424.16

0.8000
1.0000
0.8750
1127.01

0.5167
0.9688
0.5584
273.23

0.6250
0.9375
0.6250
>3600

0.3478
1.0000
0.6094
>3600

0.3478
1.0000
0.5312
>3600

0.3636
1.0000
0.5312
>3600

0.3636
1.0000
0.5625
>3600

0.5231
1.0000
0.5404
>3600

0.6522
0.9375
0.6641
1180.52

0.6364
0.8750
0.6953
2799.42

0.3478
1.0000
0.5312
691.27

1.0000
0.1250
0.6875
675.32

0.3636
1.0000
0.5625
2866.14

0.8333
0.1471
0.5579
2119.34

0.4400
0.5000
0.6250
>3600

0.5512
0.6110
0.6721
>3600

0.4000
0.5000
0.5000
>3600

0.3300
0.2500
0.3750
>3600

0.3330
0.5000
0.5000
>3600

0.7500
0.2500
0.6200
>3600

0.6666
0.2500
0.7083
953.42

0.6250
0.6250
0.7500
2466.08

0.5000
0.3750
0.6660
294.32

0.3000
0.7500
0.3333
529.11

0.5000
0.7500
0.6666
1565.82

1.0000
0.2500
0.7000
1788.50

0.3300
0.3750
0.5400
>3600

0.6621
0.6012
0.6425
>3600

0.2307
0.3750
0.2500
>3600

0.5000
0.2500
0.5000
>3600

0.3300
0.5000
0.5000
>3600

0.6120
0.5620
0.6419
>3600

0.4000
0.6250
0.6725
902.10

0.7125
0.6250
0.6820
2562.59

0.5000
0.6250
0.7600
275.50

0.3333
0.5000
0.6250
618.72

0.3300
0.5000
0.5000
1602.10

0.7500
0.5300
0.6820
1688.19

0.8000
1.0000
0.9160
861.30

0.8571
0.7500
0.8750
2128.99

0.8750
0.8750
0.9160
228.92

1.0000
1.0000
1.0000
678.48

0.8000
1.0000
0.9160
1425.25

0.9696
0.8888
0.9305
1476.01

model’s behavior on victim samples tends to shift towards the target label even without the appearance
of the backdoor trigger. Therefore, we can feed clean samples from each class and pick the most
likely target label by observing the model’s output distribution shift. Specifically, given a set of
samples {xi}n
i=1 from class ci, we collect top-h predicted classes of each predicted box for each
sample xi. Denote ωj as the frequency of class cj appearing in the total box predictions. We consider
a pair {ci, cj} as a compromised label pair if ωj ≥ ω. In this paper, we make a trade-off by setting
h = 5 and ω = 0.5. We also evaluate the sensitivity of hyper-parameters in Section 4.2.

4 Evaluation

All the experiments are conducted on a server equipped with two Intel Xeon Silver 4214 2.40GHz
12-core processors, 192 GB of RAM, and a NVIDIA RTX A6000 GPU.

Models and Datasets. We conduct the experiments on models from TrojAI [1] round 10 and round
13, which consists of a total of 168 models. Approximately half of these models are clean, while the
other half are attacked. Our evaluation covers 3 existing object detection image datasets, including
COCO [30], Synthesized Traffic Signs [1], and DOTA_v2 [11] on three representative object detection
architectures: single-stage detector: SSD [32], two-stage detector: Faster-RCNN [45] and vision
transformer based detector: DETR [2]. Please refer to Appendix A for more detailed description.

Attack Settings. We conducted an evaluation of DJANGO by subjecting it to two types of backdoor
attacks commonly observed in object detection models: Misclassification and Evasion attacks [3, 38]
Misclassification attack means to flip the prediction of objects from the victim class to the target
class, when the backdoor trigger is stamped on the input image. On the other hand, evasion triggers
tend to suppress the recognition of victim objects, such that the model will consider them as the
background. It is noteworthy that the evasion trigger can be regarded as a particular instance of
the misclassification trigger, where the target label is set as the background class ∅. As a result,
its detection can be performed uniformly. Besides, we leverage stealthy polygons with different
colors and textures as backdoor triggers, which are widely evaluated in many backdoor detection
papers [59, 17, 49].

Evaluation Metrics.
In our evaluation of backdoor detection methods, we employ four well-
established metrics: Precision, Recall, ROC-AUC, and Average Scanning Overheads for each model.
The unit of measurement we use is seconds (s), and we set a maximum threshold of 1 hour (3600 s)
for all the methods being evaluated. If the scanning process exceeds 3600 seconds, it is terminated,
and we rely on the existing results for making predictions. Appendix B present more details.

7

Baseline Methods We compare DJANGO against 6 baseline methods, including 4 trigger inversion
based methods (i.e., NC [59], ABS [33], Pixel [55] and Tabor [18]), and 2 meta-classification based
methods (i.e., MNTD [69] and MF [21]). For meta classification based methods that involve training,
we have performed 5-fold cross-validation and reported the validation results exclusively. For the 4
inversion-based scanners, we adopt their objective functions as described in Eq. 2 and keep their other
designs unchanged. To ensure a fair comparison, we use the same setting for common optimization
hyper-parameters for all inversion based methods. We determine the optimal threshold for the size of
inverted triggers as the detection rule for[59, 55, 18]. For ABS, we follow its original technique and
use REASR as the decision score.

4.1 Detection Performance

Comparison to Trigger Inversion based Meth-
ods. Table 1 shows the results for trigger inver-
sion based methods, where the first two columns
denote the datasets and model architectures, the
third column the evaluation metrics, and the
subsequent columns the baselines. Addition-
ally, considering that NC [59], Pixel [55], and
Tabor [18] need to scan all possible victim-
target pairs, which can exceed the time limit,
we have employed our warm-up pre-processing
technique (Section 3.3). We compare the en-
hanced versions of these methods (NC∗, Pixel∗,
Tabor∗) with DJANGO. Note that we have not
evaluated ABS on DETR models, as the original
version is specifically designed for CNN-based
models and not transformers.

D

s
i
s
e
h
t
n
y
S
n
g
i
S
c
fi
f
a
r
T

A
T
O
D

Table 2: Comparison to meta classifiers
Metric MNTD

MF

M

DJANGO

SSD

F-RCNN

DETR

SSD

F-RCNN

Precision
Recall
ROC-AUC

Precision
Recall
ROC-AUC

Precision
Recall
ROC-AUC

Precision
Recall
ROC-AUC

Precision
Recall
ROC-AUC

0.4545
0.3125
0.3750

0.5652
0.8125
0.7695

0.1250
0.1250
0.1719

0.3333
0.1250
0.3906

1.0000
0.5000
0.6562

0.4000
0.5000
0.6563

0.5000
0.1250
0.6797

0.1250
0.1250
0.2890

0.3333
0.5000
0.4375

0.3333
0.5000
0.6875

0.8000
1.0000
0.9160

0.8571
0.7500
0.8750

0.8750
0.8750
0.9160

1.0000
1.0000
1.0000

0.8000
1.0000
0.9160

SSD

O
C
O
C

Precision
Recall
ROC-AUC

DJANGO consistently outperforms all the base-
lines, with the best results are highlighted in
bold. The average ROC-AUC of DJANGO is
0.913, while the highest ROC-AUC achieved by
the baselines is 0.875, which is the result obtained by ABS on DOTA and F-RCNN. The average
ROC-AUC of these baselines is nearly 0.592. Furthermore, our warm-up pre-processing technique
has proven effective in enhancing the scanning performance of the baselines, resulting in an improve-
ment of 0.05 to 0.15 in terms of ROC-AUC and a significant reduction in overheads from over 3600
seconds to a range of 275 to 2800 seconds. Despite these advancements, the enhanced versions of the
baselines are still unable to surpass the performance of DJANGO, with ROC-AUC gaps ranging from
0.15 to 0.50.

0.7000
1.0000
0.8163

0.8182
0.5625
0.8144

0.9696
0.8888
0.9305

Additionally, we have observed that the overheads incurred by DJANGO are consistently lower
than those of NC, Pixel, and Tabor, even when these methods are equipped with our warm-up pre-
processing technique. However, ABS generally achieves lower overheads than DJANGO, primarily
because ABS only performs trigger inversion for the top-10 target classes according to the original
configuration. Nonetheless, it is important to note that DJANGO significantly outperforms ABS in
terms of ROC-AUC, which is the more critical metric for our evaluation. We further illustrate the
inverted trigger by DJANGO in Figure 6. It is evident that the inverted trigger produced by DJANGO
closely resembles the ground-truth injected trigger in terms of both shape and color. The overall
success of DJANGO can be attributed to our well-designed warm-up pre-processing and the novel
Gaussian Focus Loss 4. These techniques play a crucial role in achieving the superior performance
and efficiency demonstrated by DJANGO compared to the baselines.

Comparison to Meta Classifiers. Table 2 provides a comparison between meta classifiers and
DJANGO. Since meta classifiers require only a few seconds to scan a model, we have omitted the
overheads from the table. Observe that baselines achieve decent results in the COCO dataset with
over 0.81 ROC-AUC, while only make nearly 0.6 ROC-AUC on other datasets. This discrepancy
can be attributed to the fact that there are over 60 models available in the COCO dataset, whereas
there are only 30 models in the other datasets. Consequently, the performance of the meta classifiers
heavily relies on the availability of a large number of training models. Unfortunately, obtaining such a

8

Figure 6: Visual similarity between GT and DJANGO inverted triggers.

(a) Evaluation on different datasets

(b) Evaluation on different model architectures

Figure 7: Evaluation of label proposal pre-processing

significant number of models in real-world scenarios is a challenging task. In contrast, DJANGO does
not require access to training models. Moreover, it achieves a ROC-AUC of over 0.91, outperforming
the meta classifiers even when they are trained on a sufficient number of models in the COCO dataset.
This highlights the effectiveness and robustness of DJANGO in detecting backdoor attacks, surpassing
the performance of meta classifiers.

Evaluation on Advanced Object Detection Backdoor Attacks. We also evaluate DJANGO on two
advanced object detection backdoor attacks [3, 5, 28]. DJANGO achieves 0.8 and 0.9 ROC-AUC on
detecting these attacks. Appendix E presents more discussion.

4.2 Evaluation of Label Proposal Pre-processing

In this section, we evaluate the effectiveness of our label proposal pre-processing introduced in
Section 3.3. Results are presented in Figure 7. As shown in Figure 7(a), where the x-axis denotes the
dataset, the left y-axis denotes the average number of pairs and the right one the TPR (True Positive
Rate) of the selected pairs. In the case of an attacked model, if the selected pairs after pre-processing
contain the ground-truth victim-target pair, it is considered a true positive. TPR is calculated as the
ratio of true positives to all positives. The green bars represent the average number of pairs without
pre-processing, while the red bars represent the number of pairs after pre-processing. We observe
that across all datasets, our pre-processing technique significantly reduces the number of scanning
pairs by 83% to 98%. The curves represent the TPR, showing that our pre-processing results in
TPRs of over 88% across different datasets. These results indicate that our pre-processing technique
effectively reduces the number of pairs to a remarkably low level while maintaining a high detection
rate. The experiment is conducted by selecting various values of h ranging from 1 to 10 (representing
the top h class labels) and ω ranging from 0.1 to 0.8 (representing the frequency threshold). We
record the average number of pairs and true positive rate (TPR) under this configuration. The results
are depicted in Figure 7(b). we observe that SSD and DETR models require fewer than 100 pairs to
reach high TPR, while Faster-RCNN models require around 200 pairs. One potential reason for this
difference is that Faster-RCNN requires a two-stage training process where the backdoor signal is
less prominent compared to single-stage training methods in SSD and DETR.

9

SynthDOTACOCODataset01000200030004000500060007000Average No. of Pairs2602306632046.951.0492.85Pre-Processingw/ow0.30.40.50.60.70.80.91.0TPR050100150200250Average No. of Pairs0.00.20.40.60.81.0TPRDETRFaster R-CNNSSDTable 3: Ablation study

Method

SSD

Faster-RCNN

DETR

ROC-AUC Overhead(s)

ROC-AUC Overhead(s)

ROC-AUC Overhead(s)

DJANGO
DJANGO - GF Loss
DJANGO - Pre-Processing

1.0000
0.7500
0.6250

859.59
860.24
>3600

0.8750
0.7500
0.5000

2120.10
2135.59
>3600

0.8750
0.7500
0.6250

227.55
226.88
>3600

4.3 Ablation Study

Our ablation experiments are conducted on the synthesized traffic sign dataset with 3 different model
architectures. We include 8 models for each architecture, with half clean and half attacked.

There are two key designs of DJANGO to ensure the detection effectiveness, i.e., GF Loss and Pre-
Processing. We conduct ablation study to assess the contribution of these components respectively.
Results are shown in Table 3, where each row corresponds to a specific ablation method. The results
clearly demonstrate the critical importance of both GF Loss and Pre-Processing in DJANGO. Without
these components, the detection performance of DJANGO significantly degrades by more than 0.13
ROC-AUC. Pre-Processing also plays a crucial role in reducing the detection overhead. Please refer
to sec D for hyper-parameter sensitivity analysis.

4.4 Adaptive Attack

0.0

0.8766

0.0000

0.0023

0.0047

No Attack

0.80
0.60
0.51

0.9812
0.4014
0.0446

0.8700
0.8708
0.8685

1.0000
1.0000
1.0000

1.0000
1.0000
0.5728

Table 4: Adaptive attack
Attack Conf. Clean mAP ASR_0.1 ASR_0.6 ASR_0.8 DJANGO

In this section, we evaluate the perfor-
mance of DJANGO in the context of adap-
tive attacks. The effectiveness of DJANGO
relies on the confidence levels assigned to
the potential boxes, as these determine the
coefficients used for trigger inversion. Con-
sequently, an adaptive attack strategy could
involve reducing the confidence of objects containing the trigger, thereby potentially causing DJANGO
to assign lower coefficients to these poisoned boxes. To evaluate the adaptive attack scenario, we
conduct experiments using a 5-class synthesized traffic sign dataset with the SSD model. We train
several models with misclassification attacks, where the victim class is to 0 and the target class 4. In
order to simulate low confidence attacks, we reduced the ground-truth confidence of the target class
to values of 0.8, 0.6, and 0.51, while setting the confidence of the victim class to 0.2, 0.4, and 0.49,
respectively. After sufficient training, we applied DJANGO to these models. The results are presented
in Table 4, where we recorded the clean mAP and the ASRs at different score thresholds. For instance,
ASR_0.1 indicates the ASR when the prediction confidence is higher than 0.1. From the results,
we can see that low confidence attacks lead to lower ASRs, especially when the score threshold for
measuring the ASR is set high. Furthermore, DJANGO is successful in detecting attacked models
with target confidences of 0.8 and 0.6, but fails when the target confidence is 0.51 (threshold set at
0.8). These results suggest that DJANGO is effective against most low-confidence attacks, but its
performance may degrade to some extent when the target confidence is very low.

1.0
1.0
0.6

5 Limitation

Our primary focus in this paper is on attacks that use static polygon triggers, which are more feasible
in real-world scenarios. How to effectively inject more complex triggers [42, 9, 48] in object detection
models is still an open question. We leave it to future work.

6 Conclusion

In this paper, we present DJANGO, the first trigger inversion framework on detecting backdoors in
object detection models. It is based on a novel Gaussian Focus Loss to tackle the loss misalignment
issue in object detection trigger inversion. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness and
efficiency of DJANGO compared to existing baselines.

10

7 Acknowledgment

We thank the anonymous reviewers for their constructive comments. We are grateful to the Center for
AI Safety for providing computational resources. This research was supported, in part by IARPA
TrojAI W911NF-19-S-0012, NSF 1901242 and 1910300, ONR N000141712045, N000141410468
and N000141712947. Any opinions, findings, and conclusions in this paper are those of the authors
only and do not necessarily reflect the views of our sponsors.

References

[1] TrojAI Leaderboard. https://pages.nist.gov/trojai/.

[2] Nicolas Carion, Francisco Massa, Gabriel Synnaeve, Nicolas Usunier, Alexander Kirillov, and Sergey
Zagoruyko. End-to-end object detection with transformers.
In Computer Vision–ECCV 2020: 16th
European Conference, Glasgow, UK, August 23–28, 2020, Proceedings, Part I 16, pages 213–229.
Springer, 2020.

[3] Shih-Han Chan, Yinpeng Dong, Jun Zhu, Xiaolu Zhang, and Jun Zhou. Baddet: Backdoor attacks on
object detection. In Computer Vision–ECCV 2022 Workshops: Tel Aviv, Israel, October 23–27, 2022,
Proceedings, Part I, pages 396–412. Springer, 2023.

[4] Bryant Chen, Wilka Carvalho, Nathalie Baracaldo, Heiko Ludwig, Benjamin Edwards, Taesung Lee,
Ian Molloy, and Biplav Srivastava. Detecting backdoor attacks on deep neural networks by activation
clustering. arXiv preprint arXiv:1811.03728, 2018.

[5] Kangjie Chen, Xiaoxuan Lou, Guowen Xu, Jiwei Li, and Tianwei Zhang. Clean-image backdoor: Attacking
multi-label models with poisoned labels only. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2022.

[6] Shang-Tse Chen, Cory Cornelius, Jason Martin, and Duen Horng Chau. Shapeshifter: Robust physi-
cal adversarial attack on faster r-cnn object detector. In Machine Learning and Knowledge Discovery
in Databases: European Conference, ECML PKDD 2018, Dublin, Ireland, September 10–14, 2018,
Proceedings, Part I 18, pages 52–68. Springer, 2019.

[7] Xinyun Chen, Chang Liu, Bo Li, Kimberly Lu, and Dawn Song. Targeted backdoor attacks on deep

learning systems using data poisoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.05526, 2017.

[8] Xinyun Chen, Chang Liu, Bo Li, Kimberly Lu, and Dawn Song. Targeted backdoor attacks on deep

learning systems using data poisoning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.05526, 2017.

[9] Siyuan Cheng, Yingqi Liu, Shiqing Ma, and Xiangyu Zhang. Deep feature space trojan attack of neural
networks by controlled detoxification. In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,
volume 35, pages 1148–1156, 2021.

[10] Siyuan Cheng, Guanhong Tao, Yingqi Liu, Shengwei An, Xiangzhe Xu, Shiwei Feng, Guangyu Shen,
Kaiyuan Zhang, Qiuling Xu, Shiqing Ma, et al. Beagle: Forensics of deep learning backdoor attack for
better defense. arXiv preprint arXiv:2301.06241, 2023.

[11] Jian Ding, Nan Xue, Gui-Song Xia, Xiang Bai, Wen Yang, Michael Yang, Serge Belongie, Jiebo Luo,
Mihai Datcu, Marcello Pelillo, and Liangpei Zhang. Object detection in aerial images: A large-scale
benchmark and challenges. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence, pages 1–1,
2021.

[12] Bao Gia Doan, Ehsan Abbasnejad, and Damith C Ranasinghe. Februus: Input purification defense against
trojan attacks on deep neural network systems. In Annual Computer Security Applications Conference,
pages 897–912, 2020.

[13] Dumitru Erhan, Christian Szegedy, Alexander Toshev, and Dragomir Anguelov. Scalable object detection
In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern

using deep neural networks.
recognition, pages 2147–2154, 2014.

[14] Di Feng, Christian Haase-Schütz, Lars Rosenbaum, Heinz Hertlein, Claudius Glaeser, Fabian Timm,
Werner Wiesbeck, and Klaus Dietmayer. Deep multi-modal object detection and semantic segmentation for
autonomous driving: Datasets, methods, and challenges. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation
Systems, 22(3):1341–1360, 2020.

11

[15] Shiwei Feng, Guanhong Tao, Siyuan Cheng, Guangyu Shen, Xiangzhe Xu, Yingqi Liu, Kaiyuan Zhang,
Shiqing Ma, and Xiangyu Zhang. Detecting backdoors in pre-trained encoders. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 16352–16362, 2023.

[16] Yansong Gao, Change Xu, Derui Wang, Shiping Chen, Damith C Ranasinghe, and Surya Nepal. Strip:
A defence against trojan attacks on deep neural networks. In Proceedings of the 35th Annual Computer
Security Applications Conference, pages 113–125, 2019.

[17] Tianyu Gu, Kang Liu, Brendan Dolan-Gavitt, and Siddharth Garg. Badnets: Evaluating backdooring

attacks on deep neural networks. IEEE Access, 2019.

[18] Wenbo Guo, Lun Wang, Xinyu Xing, Min Du, and Dawn Song. Tabor: A highly accurate approach to

inspecting and restoring trojan backdoors in ai systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:1908.01763, 2019.

[19] Jonathan Hayase, Weihao Kong, Raghav Somani, and Sewoong Oh. Spectre: Defending against backdoor
attacks using robust statistics. In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 4129–4139. PMLR,
2021.

[20] Jan Hosang, Rodrigo Benenson, and Bernt Schiele. Learning non-maximum suppression. In Proceedings

of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 4507–4515, 2017.

[21] Khondoker Murad Hossain and Tim Oates. Backdoor attack detection in computer vision by applying

matrix factorization on the weights of deep networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.08121, 2022.

[22] Kunzhe Huang, Yiming Li, Baoyuan Wu, Zhan Qin, and Kui Ren. Backdoor defense via decoupling the

training process. arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.03423, 2022.

[23] Jinyuan Jia, Yupei Liu, Xiaoyu Cao, and Neil Zhenqiang Gong. Certified robustness of nearest neighbors
In Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial

against data poisoning and backdoor attacks.
Intelligence, volume 36, pages 9575–9583, 2022.

[24] Jinyuan Jia, Yupei Liu, and Neil Zhenqiang Gong. Badencoder: Backdoor attacks to pre-trained encoders
in self-supervised learning. In 2022 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), pages 2043–2059.
IEEE, 2022.

[25] Bijun Lee, Yang Wei, and I Yuan Guo. Automatic parking of self-driving car based on lidar. Int. Arch.

Photogramm. Remote Sens. Spat. Inf. Sci, 42:241–246, 2017.

[26] Yige Li, Xixiang Lyu, Nodens Koren, Lingjuan Lyu, Bo Li, and Xingjun Ma. Anti-backdoor learning:

Training clean models on poisoned data. In NeurIPS, 2021.

[27] Yige Li, Xixiang Lyu, Nodens Koren, Lingjuan Lyu, Bo Li, and Xingjun Ma. Neural attention distillation:

Erasing backdoor triggers from deep neural networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2101.05930, 2021.

[28] Junyu Lin, Lei Xu, Yingqi Liu, and Xiangyu Zhang. Composite backdoor attack for deep neural network
by mixing existing benign features. In Proceedings of the 2020 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer
and Communications Security, pages 113–131, 2020.

[29] Tsung-Yi Lin, Priya Goyal, Ross Girshick, Kaiming He, and Piotr Dollár. Focal loss for dense object
detection. In Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on computer vision, pages 2980–2988,
2017.

[30] Tsung-Yi Lin, Michael Maire, Serge Belongie, James Hays, Pietro Perona, Deva Ramanan, Piotr Dollár,

and C Lawrence Zitnick. Microsoft coco: Common objects in context. pages 740–755, 2014.

[31] Kang Liu, Brendan Dolan-Gavitt, and Siddharth Garg. Fine-pruning: Defending against backdooring
attacks on deep neural networks. In International Symposium on Research in Attacks, Intrusions, and
Defenses, pages 273–294. Springer, 2018.

[32] Wei Liu, Dragomir Anguelov, Dumitru Erhan, Christian Szegedy, Scott Reed, Cheng-Yang Fu, and
Alexander C Berg. Ssd: Single shot multibox detector. In Computer Vision–ECCV 2016: 14th European
Conference, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, October 11–14, 2016, Proceedings, Part I 14, pages 21–37.
Springer, 2016.

[33] Yingqi Liu, Wen-Chuan Lee, Guanhong Tao, Shiqing Ma, Yousra Aafer, and Xiangyu Zhang. Abs:
Scanning neural networks for back-doors by artificial brain stimulation. In Proceedings of the 2019 ACM
SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pages 1265–1282, 2019.

12

[34] Yingqi Liu, Shiqing Ma, Yousra Aafer, Wen-Chuan Lee, Juan Zhai, Weihang Wang, and Xiangyu Zhang.

Trojaning attack on neural networks. 2017.

[35] Yingqi Liu, Guangyu Shen, Guanhong Tao, Shengwei An, Shiqing Ma, and Xiangyu Zhang. Piccolo:
Exposing complex backdoors in nlp transformer models. In 2022 IEEE Symposium on Security and
Privacy (SP), pages 2025–2042. IEEE, 2022.

[36] Yingqi Liu, Guangyu Shen, Guanhong Tao, Zhenting Wang, Shiqing Ma, and Xiangyu Zhang. Complex
backdoor detection by symmetric feature differencing. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 15003–15013, 2022.

[37] Yunfei Liu, Xingjun Ma, James Bailey, and Feng Lu. Reflection backdoor: A natural backdoor attack on
deep neural networks. In European Conference on Computer Vision, pages 182–199. Springer, 2020.

[38] Chengxiao Luo, Yiming Li, Yong Jiang, and Shu-Tao Xia. Untargeted backdoor attack against object detec-
tion. In ICASSP 2023-2023 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
(ICASSP), pages 1–5. IEEE, 2023.

[39] Hua Ma, Yinshan Li, Yansong Gao, Alsharif Abuadbba, Zhi Zhang, Anmin Fu, Hyoungshick Kim, Said F
Al-Sarawi, Nepal Surya, and Derek Abbott. Dangerous cloaking: Natural trigger based backdoor attacks
on object detectors in the physical world. arXiv preprint arXiv:2201.08619, 2022.

[40] Shiqing Ma, Yingqi Liu, Guanhong Tao, Wen-Chuan Lee, and Xiangyu Zhang. Nic: Detecting adversarial
samples with neural network invariant checking. In Proceedings of the 26th Network and Distributed
System Security Symposium (NDSS 2019), 2019.

[41] Shunji Mori, Hirobumi Nishida, and Hiromitsu Yamada. Optical character recognition. John Wiley &

Sons, Inc., 1999.

[42] Anh Nguyen and Anh Tran. Wanet–imperceptible warping-based backdoor attack. arXiv preprint

arXiv:2102.10369, 2021.

[43] Xiangyu Qi, Tinghao Xie, Jiachen T Wang, Tong Wu, Saeed Mahloujifar, and Prateek Mittal. Towards a
proactive {ML} approach for detecting backdoor poison samples. In 32nd USENIX Security Symposium
(USENIX Security 23), pages 1685–1702, 2023.

[44] Joseph Redmon and Ali Farhadi. Yolov3: An incremental improvement. arXiv preprint arXiv:1804.02767,

2018.

[45] Shaoqing Ren, Kaiming He, Ross Girshick, and Jian Sun. Faster r-cnn: Towards real-time object detection

with region proposal networks. volume 28, 2015.

[46] Hamid Rezatofighi, Nathan Tsoi, JunYoung Gwak, Amir Sadeghian, Ian Reid, and Silvio Savarese.
Generalized intersection over union: A metric and a loss for bounding box regression. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition, pages 658–666, 2019.

[47] Ahmed Salem, Michael Backes, and Yang Zhang. Get a model! model hijacking attack against machine

learning models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2111.04394, 2021.

[48] Ahmed Salem, Rui Wen, Michael Backes, Shiqing Ma, and Yang Zhang. Dynamic backdoor attacks

against machine learning models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2003.03675, 2020.

[49] Guangyu Shen, Yingqi Liu, Guanhong Tao, Shengwei An, Qiuling Xu, Siyuan Cheng, Shiqing Ma, and
Xiangyu Zhang. Backdoor scanning for deep neural networks through k-arm optimization. In International
Conference on Machine Learning, 2021.

[50] Guangyu Shen, Yingqi Liu, Guanhong Tao, Qiuling Xu, Zhuo Zhang, Shengwei An, Shiqing Ma, and
Xiangyu Zhang. Constrained optimization with dynamic bound-scaling for effective nlp backdoor defense.
In International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 19879–19892. PMLR, 2022.

[51] G Sreenu and Saleem Durai. Intelligent video surveillance: a review through deep learning techniques for

crowd analysis. Journal of Big Data, 6(1):1–27, 2019.

[52] Weisong Sun, Yuchen Chen, Guanhong Tao, Chunrong Fang, Xiangyu Zhang, Quanjun Zhang, and Bin
Luo. Backdooring neural code search. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics, 2023.

[53] Di Tang, XiaoFeng Wang, Haixu Tang, and Kehuan Zhang. Demon in the variant: Statistical analysis
of dnns for robust backdoor contamination detection. In 30th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX
Security 21), 2021.

13

[54] Guanhong Tao, Yingqi Liu, Guangyu Shen, Qiuling Xu, Shengwei An, Zhuo Zhang, and Xiangyu Zhang.
Model orthogonalization: Class distance hardening in neural networks for better security. In 2022 IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP). IEEE, volume 3, 2022.

[55] Guanhong Tao, Guangyu Shen, Yingqi Liu, Shengwei An, Qiuling Xu, Shiqing Ma, Pan Li, and Xiangyu
Zhang. Better trigger inversion optimization in backdoor scanning. In 2022 Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR 2022), 2022.

[56] Guanhong Tao, Zhenting Wang, Shiwei Feng, Guangyu Shen, Shiqing Ma, and Xiangyu Zhang. Distribu-
tion preserving backdoor attack in self-supervised learning. In 2024 IEEE Symposium on Security and
Privacy (SP). IEEE Computer Society, 2024.

[57] Brandon Tran, Jerry Li, and Aleksander Madry. Spectral signatures in backdoor attacks. Advances in

neural information processing systems, 31, 2018.

[58] Alexander Turner, Dimitris Tsipras, and Aleksander Madry. Clean-label backdoor attacks. 2018.

[59] Bolun Wang, Yuanshun Yao, Shawn Shan, Huiying Li, Bimal Viswanath, Haitao Zheng, and Ben Y Zhao.
Neural cleanse: Identifying and mitigating backdoor attacks in neural networks. In 2019 IEEE Symposium
on Security and Privacy (SP), pages 707–723. IEEE, 2019.

[60] Lun Wang, Zaynah Javed, Xian Wu, Wenbo Guo, Xinyu Xing, and Dawn Song. Backdoorl: Backdoor

attack against competitive reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2105.00579, 2021.

[61] Tong Wang, Yousong Zhu, Chaoyang Zhao, Wei Zeng, Yaowei Wang, Jinqiao Wang, and Ming Tang.
Large batch optimization for object detection: Training coco in 12 minutes. In Computer Vision–ECCV
2020: 16th European Conference, Glasgow, UK, August 23–28, 2020, Proceedings, Part XXI 16, pages
481–496. Springer, 2020.

[62] Zhenting Wang, Kai Mei, Hailun Ding, Juan Zhai, and Shiqing Ma. Rethinking the reverse-engineering of
trojan triggers. In Alice H. Oh, Alekh Agarwal, Danielle Belgrave, and Kyunghyun Cho, editors, Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2022.

[63] Zhenting Wang, Kai Mei, Juan Zhai, and Shiqing Ma. Unicorn: A unified backdoor trigger inversion

framework. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.02786, 2023.

[64] Zhenting Wang, Juan Zhai, and Shiqing Ma. Bppattack: Stealthy and efficient trojan attacks against
deep neural networks via image quantization and contrastive adversarial learning. In Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 15074–15084, June
2022.

[65] Dongxian Wu and Yisen Wang. Adversarial neuron pruning purifies backdoored deep models. Advances

in Neural Information Processing Systems, 34:16913–16925, 2021.

[66] Zuxuan Wu, Ser-Nam Lim, Larry S Davis, and Tom Goldstein. Making an invisibility cloak: Real world
adversarial attacks on object detectors. In Computer Vision–ECCV 2020: 16th European Conference,
Glasgow, UK, August 23–28, 2020, Proceedings, Part IV 16, pages 1–17. Springer, 2020.

[67] Chong Xiang, Arjun Nitin Bhagoji, Vikash Sehwag, and Prateek Mittal. Patchguard: A provably robust de-
fense against adversarial patches via small receptive fields and masking. In USENIX Security Symposium,
pages 2237–2254, 2021.

[68] Chong Xiang, Saeed Mahloujifar, and Prateek Mittal. {PatchCleanser}: Certifiably robust defense against
adversarial patches for any image classifier. In 31st USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 22),
pages 2065–2082, 2022.

[69] Xiaojun Xu, Qi Wang, Huichen Li, Nikita Borisov, Carl A Gunter, and Bo Li. Detecting ai trojans using
meta neural analysis. In 2021 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), pages 103–120. IEEE,
2021.

[70] Wenkai Yang, Yankai Lin, Peng Li, Jie Zhou, and Xu Sun. Rethinking stealthiness of backdoor attack
against nlp models. In Proceedings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics and the 11th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (Volume 1: Long
Papers), pages 5543–5557, 2021.

[71] Mingjun Yin, Shasha Li, Chengyu Song, M Salman Asif, Amit K Roy-Chowdhury, and Srikanth V
Krishnamurthy. Adc: Adversarial attacks against object detection that evade context consistency checks. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision, pages 3278–3287,
2022.

14

[72] Kaiyuan Zhang, Guanhong Tao, Qiuling Xu, Siyuan Cheng, Shengwei An, Yingqi Liu, Shiwei Feng,
Guangyu Shen, Pin-Yu Chen, Shiqing Ma, and Xiangyu Zhang. FLIP: A provable defense framework
for backdoor mitigation in federated learning. In The Eleventh International Conference on Learning
Representations, 2023.

[73] Zhuo Zhang, Guanhong Tao, Guangyu Shen, Shengwei An, Qiuling Xu, Yingqi Liu, Yapeng Ye, Yaoxuan
Wu, and Xiangyu Zhang. Pelican: Exploiting backdoors of naturally trained deep learning models in binary
code analysis. 2023.

[74] Zhong-Qiu Zhao, Peng Zheng, Shou-tao Xu, and Xindong Wu. Object detection with deep learning: A

review. IEEE transactions on neural networks and learning systems, 30(11):3212–3232, 2019.

15

Appendix

A Details of datasets and architectures

A.1 Object Detection Image Dataset

COCO (Common Objects in Context) [30] dataset is widely used for object detection tasks. It
contains 80 object categories, including people, animals, vehicles and more. Each image can contain
multiple instances of objects, providing ample opportunities for training and evaluating models
capable of detecting and segmenting objects in complex scenes.

Synthesized Traffic Sign dataset is designed by TrojAI [1] which focuses on traffic sign detection,
featuring various types of traffic signs commonly encountered in real-world scenarios. There are
in total over 4000 different traffic signs. Each model is trained on a randomly sampled subset of
classes. The number of classes within these subsets exhibits variability, ranging from as few as 2 to a
maximum of 128.

DOTA (Detection in Aerial Images) dataset is designed for object detection in aerial images which
consists of high-resolution images captured by aerial platforms. It contains 18 categories, including
plane, ship, storage tank, baseball diamond and more. Its large-scale, fine-grained annotations, and
challenging scenarios make it an ideal benchmark for evaluating and developing algorithms capable
of detecting objects in aerial images accurately.

A.2 Architecture

We evaluate our method on three well-known model architectures:, i.e., SSD [32], Faster-RCNN [45],
and DETR [2]. SSD (Single Shot MultiBox Detector) [32] is a popular object detection model
which utilizes a series of convolutional layers to detect objects at multiple scales and aspect ratios.
Faster-RCNN [45] is another widely adopted object detection model that combines region proposal
generation with a region-based CNN for object detection. DETR (DEtection TRansformer) [2] is a
state-of-the-art object detection model that utilizes a transformer-based architecture. It replaces the
conventional two-stage approach with a single-stage end-to-end detection framework.

A.3 Model Dataset

TrojAI [1] initiative, spearheaded by IARPA, encompasses a multi-year, multi-round program.
Its overarching objective revolves around the development of scalable and dependable automatic
backdoor detection tools, specifically targeting the identification of backdoor trojans within Deep
Learning models across diverse modalities. Presently, the program consists of a total of 13 rounds,
each with distinct focuses and tasks. The initial four rounds and the eleventh round center their efforts
on detecting trojans present in image classification models. In contrast, rounds five through nine
concentrate on transformer models employed in various NLP tasks, including Sentiment Analysis,
Named Entity Recognition, and Question Answering. Round twelve dedicates itself to the detection
of backdoors in neural network-based PDF malware detection. Finally, rounds ten and thirteen direct
their attention towards object detection models. For the evaluation of models, we exclusively utilize
the training sets from rounds 10 and 13. As shown in Table 5, our evaluation entails 72 models trained
on the Synthesis Traffic Sign dataset, encompassing all three model architectures. Among these
models, 48 are benign, while 24 are deliberately poisoned, with an equal distribution of triggers for
misclassification and evasion. Concerning the DOTA models, there exist two architectures, namely
SSD and Faster-RCNN, resulting in a total of 24 models, including 16 benign models and 4 each
poisoned with misclassification and evasion triggers. All COCO models adopt the SSD architecture,
with a distribution of 36 clean models and 18 models poisoned by both misclassification and evasion
triggers. To provide further elucidation,it is important to note that the poison rate varies within
the range of 0.1% to 8% across diverse models sourced from TrojAI r10 and r13. Similarly, the
trigger size exhibits a range of 1x1 to 22x22, representing a scale of 0.001% to 0.7% relative to the
input dimensions. Pertaining to the hyper-parameters utilized in model training, the learning rate is
stochastically assigned, spanning from 1.56e−8 to 1e−4 across different models. The number of
epochs for training spans from 6 to 100, while the batch size ranges from 4 to 32. As for the model
performance metrics, the average clean mAP across the models attains a value of 0.7979, while the
average poison mAP stands at 0.7680. The trigger’s polygonal structure is characterized by varying

16

edge counts, ranging from 3 to 8. Furthermore, each individual trigger is endowed with randomly
generated color and texture attributes. Concrete settings can be found Round13* and Round10*.

B Details of evaluation metrics

In our evaluation of backdoor detection methods, we employ four well-established metrics: Precision,
Recall, ROC-AUC, and Average Scanning Overheads for each model. Precision quantifies the
accuracy of a detection method by measuring the proportion of correctly identified positive instances
among all predicted positives. In our case, we consider attacked models as positive instances and
benign models as negatives. A higher precision indicates a lower rate of falsely identifying benign
models as attacked. Recall, on the other hand, assesses the effectiveness of the detection method in
correctly identifying positive instances. It measures the proportion of true positives among all actual
positives. A higher recall suggests that the detection method is capable of identifying a significant
portion of attacked models. ROC-AUC (Receiver Operating Characteristic - Area Under the Curve)
plots the true positive rate against the false positive rate at various threshold values and calculates
the area under the curve. A value of 1 indicates perfect classification, while a value of 0.5 indicates
that the method is no better than random guessing. We also consider the overhead of the detection
method, which quantifies the average time required to scan a single model. We use seconds (s) as
the unit of measurement and set a maximum threshold of 1 hour (3600 s). If the scanning process
exceeds 3600 seconds, it is terminated, and we rely on the existing results for making predictions.
Low overhead signifies high efficiency of the method. By employing these four metrics, we aim to
comprehensively evaluate the performance and efficiency of the backdoor detection methods. It is
worth noting that the time limit we have set for scanning models is deliberately conservative when
compared to the thresholds established in different rounds of the TrojAI competition. For example,
in round 13, participants are granted a generous 30-minute duration for scanning a single model.
To surpass the official benchmarks set in each round, a more aggressive and precise pre-processing
approach may be necessary.

C Details of Baseline Methods

In this section, we introduce more details of baseline methods, including NC [59], Tabor [18],
ABS [33], Pixel [55], Matrix Factorization(MF) [21] and MNTD [69].

NC [59] adopts a specific trigger inversion approach for each class and considers a model to be
attacked if it is able to generate an effective yet extremely small trigger for a target class. Tabor [18]
enhances NC by incorporating additional well-designed regularization terms, such as penalties for
scattered triggers, overlaying triggers, and blocking triggers. These additions aim to improve the
reconstruction of injected triggers. Pixel [55] introduces a novel inversion function that generates a
pair of positive and negative trigger patterns. This approach achieves better detection performance
compared to NC. ABS [33] employs a stimulation analysis to identify compromised neurons, which
serves as guidance for trigger inversion. ABS considers a model to be attacked if it can invert a trigger
that achieves a high reconstructed ASR (REASR).

To the best of our knowledge, there is no existing detection methods for object detection models.
Therefore, we perform straight-forward but reasonable adaption to these existing methods designed
on image classification tasks, such that they are able to work against backdoor attacks on object
detection models. Specifically, the original objective of NC, Tabor, and Pixel is to invert small triggers
while maintaining their effectiveness (high ASR). In our adaptation, we retain their design principles
but re-define the ASR to align with object detection models, as explained in Section 3.1. Additionally,
we introduce a threshold for the size of inverted triggers, enabling the differentiation between benign
and attacked models. For ABS, we adhere to its original technique but employ the re-defined ASR as
the optimization goal, and use REASR as the decision score. By employing these adaptations, we
aim to enhance the detection capabilities of these existing methods specifically for backdoor attacks
on object detection models.

No modifications or adaptations are needed for meta classification-based methods when applied to
object detection models. MNTD [69] trains a set of queries and a classifier to discern the feature-space

*https://pages.nist.gov/trojai/docs/object-detection-feb2023.html#object-detection-feb2023
*https://pages.nist.gov/trojai/docs/object-detection-jul2022.html#object-detection-jul2022

17

Table 5: Dataset details

Model Source

Architecture

Number of Models

Image Dataset

Round10 Round13

Synthesis Traffic Sign
DOTA
COCO

✗
✗
✓

✓
✓
✗

SSD Faster-RCNN DETR
✓
✓
✗

✓
✓
✓

✓
✗
✗

Benign Miscls Attack

Evasion Attack

48
16
36

12
4
18

12
4
18

(a) IoU threshold

(b) Region size

(c) Score threshold

Figure 8: Hyper-parameter sensitivity.

distinctions between clean and attacked models. MF [21] directly trains a classifier on model weight
features using specialized feature extraction techniques, i.e., matrix factorization. These methods
solely rely on the feature extraction networks commonly utilized in both image classification and
object detection models. As a result, MNTD and MF can be directly employed to detect backdoor
attacks in object detection models without the need for additional adjustments or modifications.

We collect the Precision, Recall, ROC-AUC and Overheads for each method across various datasets
and model architectures. To ensure a fair comparison, we have conducted a search to determine the
optimal thresholds for different decision scores associated with each method (trigger size for NC,
Tabor, Pixel, REASR for ABS and output confidence for meta-classifiers). These thresholds are
chosen to maximize accuracy. Besides, we set a fixed number of optimization steps for scanning
a pair of victim-target label (100) for all inversion based baselines. For meta classification based
methods that involve training, we have performed 5-fold cross-validation and reported the validation
results exclusively.

D Hyper-parameter Sensitivity Analysis

To assess the sensitivities of the hyper-parameters used in DJANGO, we conduct experiments as
described in Section 4.3.

IoU Thresholds. We evaluate the IoU threshold used to calculate the ASR of inverted triggers. The
results are summarized in Figure 8(a), where each row corresponds to a different model architecture,
and each column represents a different choice of IoU threshold. It can be observed that IoU thresholds
of 0.3 and 0.5 generally yield good performance. However, a threshold of 0.7 tends to degrade the
performance, possibly due to the inverted triggers interfering with the bounding box predictions.

Region Size. The impact of different regional initialization sizes is evaluated and the results are
presented in Figure 8(b). Among the various choices, a region size of 30×30 consistently achieved
the best performance. This is because larger initialization sizes tend to result in more false positive
cases.

Score Threshold. Different score thresholds are tested when computing the ASR of inverted triggers.
The results, shown in Figure 8(c), indicate that a score threshold of 0.5 generally leads to the best
performance across all model architectures. This choice represents a trade-off between false positives
and false negatives. Higher score thresholds may introduce more false negatives, as the inverted
trigger may not have high confidence similar to the injected one. On the other hand, lower score
thresholds may result in more false positives. Thus, a moderate value of 0.5 provides the optimal
balance.

18

0.30.50.7DETRF-RCNNSSD0.8750.8750.8750.8750.8750.7501.0001.0000.8750.50.60.70.80.91.030x3040x4050x50DETRF-RCNNSSD0.8750.7500.7500.8750.7500.7501.0000.8750.7500.50.60.70.80.91.00.30.50.7DETRF-RCNNSSD0.8750.8750.8750.8750.8750.8750.8751.0000.8750.50.60.70.80.91.0Table 6: Hyper-parameter sensitivity for Gaussian Focus Loss initial values

(ˆµk, ˆσk)

(0.1, 2)
(0.1, 1)
(0.1, 3)
(0.2, 2)
(0.2, 1)
(0.2, 3)

ROC-AUC

SSD

Faster-RCNN

DETR

1.0000
1.0000
1.0000
0.8750
0.8750
0.8750

1.0000
1.0000
0.8750
0.7500
0.8750
0.8750

0.8750
0.8750
0.8750
0.8750
0.7500
0.8750

Table 7: Effectiveness on different weight scheme distributions

Method

ROC-AUC

DJANGO + GF Loss
DJANGO + LP Loss
Tabor*
NC*
Pixel*

0.9500
0.9000
0.6500
0.6000
0.7000

Table 8: Effectiveness on complex attacks

Attack type

ROC-AUC

Object-appearing Attack
Composite Attack

0.8000
0.9000

These experiments allowed us to gain insights into the sensitivities of the hyper-parameters in
DJANGO, enabling us to make informed choices for achieving optimal performance.

GF Loss Initialization. We evaluate the impact of two hyper-parameters (initial mean ˆµk and
variance ˆσk) in the Eq. 4 on DJANGO. We randomly sample 8 models (4 trojan and 4 benign) for each
architecture that was trained on the synthesized traffic sign dataset. Besides the default values we
report in the paper (ˆµk = 0.1, ˆσk = 2), we set 5 more groups of initial values and report the detection
performance. As shown in Table 6, DJANGO remains effective under different initialization values.

Weight Scheme Distribution Choice. We attempted to substitute the Gaussian distribution with
the Laplace distribution, another commonly employed probability distribution. Our experimentation
involved 20 models trained on the traffic sign synthetic dataset, comprising 10 clean models and 10
models poisoned with misclassification triggers. The outcomes of these experiments are presented in
Table 7. It is evident that with the Laplace focus loss, DJANGO maintains a high level of effectiveness,
achieving an ROC-AUC of 0.9, whereas baseline methods only achieve 0.7. We hypothesize that
the 0.05 performance decline, in comparison to the Gaussian Focus Loss, may be attributed to the
sharper peak of the Laplace distribution when contrasted with the Gaussian distribution. Within our
context, a reduced number of bounding boxes exhibiting moderate confidences are allocated larger
coefficients in different stages, thereby potentially diminishing the emphasis on compromised boxes.

E Evaluation on Complex Object Detection Backdoor Attacks

We further evaluate DJANGO on two advanced object detection backdoor attacks: Object-appearing
and Composite attacks [5, 3, 28]. Object-appearing triggers aim to yield target class object bounding
boxes on the background. According to our definition, the object-appearing attack is a special case
of the misclassification attack with the background ∅ class as the victim class. To demonstrate the
effectiveness of DJANGO on object-appearing attacks, we evaluate DJANGO on 10 Baddet models
and 10 Clean-image backdoor models during rebuttal. For each type of attack, we mix 5 clean models
with 5 poisoned models with object-appearing triggers. The evaluation results are shown in Table 8.
DJANGO achieves 0.8 ROC-AUC on both Baddet and clean-image object appearing attacks.

For the composite attack, we conducted an evaluation of DJANGO using 10 models that were trained
on the traffic sign synthesis dataset. This set included 5 clean models and 5 trojan models poisoned
by composite attack. As indicated in Table 8, DJANGO achieved an 0.9 ROC-AUC for detecting
composite attacks. It’s worth noting that the composite attack does not rely on an explicit trigger.

19

Instead, it leverages a clean object A to serve as the trigger for attacking another object B. Interestingly,
DJANGO is capable of effectively reversing this process, essentially identifying a trigger that closely
mimics the pattern of object A. This ability enables DJANGO to detect composite backdoors with a
high level of accuracy.

20

